---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: A Stoic's guide to feelings
date: 2024-02-11
---
I like to call myself a Stoic, yet I give in to my emotions very easily. It feels like my inner world is a crackling fireplace than a still pond.

That led me to wonder... what _IS_ the Stoic Way of living? Is it about suppressing my feelings and emotions and living like a robot? After having read Meditations several times, I realise it's all about navigating your emotions wisely, understanding their source, and not letting your emotions get the best of you. 

Most times, the source of all your suffering stems almost always from your own mind, so the only thing you can do is gently calm your mind, acknowledge your feelings/emotions, and just let them go. Gentle being the keyword here.

So, yes, I feel deeply. I sometimes am ashamed of having such an open heart which always gives and gives because it has always led me to disappointment. However, all of that is only because of my own perspective—because I, or rather my ego, expects something proportional in return (hard not to, honestly). So it is my own fault. I need to manage my expectations. There is no shame in loving deeply and giving freely. Ego is the enemy — quell it.

Some contextual/relevant quotes from Meditations by Marcus Aurelius are going to be inserted throughout this post. 

> To stop talking about what the good man is like, and just be one.
[10.16]

> Do good work for mankind, but don't seek out approval for it. When you've done good and someone doesn't appreciate it, don't take that as a reason to quit doing good. Keep doing good even if none of the people you interact with understand what you're doing. Remember why you do it.
[12.11]

Here's how I try to acknowledge most emotions these days: I understand the context, make a mental note of it, and let it go. I also try and process it through music, if it's overwhelming.

On rare occasions, I feel annoyed/angry too (contrary to popular belief). I like to think that I have a strong core (inner peace, that is, not my abdominal muscles). I just remind myself that the source of my anger often lies within me—for example, MY inability to do certain things, often due to frustration because of things which are beyond my control. I just take a deep breath (sometimes a deep sigh), and feel grateful for the things I can control in my life, and let go. It is hard.

> External things are not the problem. It's your assessment of them. Which you can erase right now.
If the problem is something in your own character, who's stopping you from setting your mind straight?
And if it's that you're not doing something you think you should be, why not just do it?<br/>
—But there are insuperable obstacles.<br/>
Then it's not a problem. The cause of your inaction lies outside of you.
[8.47]

> When you start to lose your temper, remember: There's nothing manly about rage. It's courtesy and kindness that define a human being—and a man. That's who possesses strength and nerves and guts, not the angry whiners. To react like that brings you closer to impassivity—and so to strength. Pain is the opposite of strength, and so is anger. Both are things we suffer from, and yield to.
[11.18]

> Someone despises me.
That's their problem.
Mine: not to do or say anything despicable. <br/>
Someone hates me. Their problem.
Mine: to be patient and cheerful with everyone, including them. Ready to show them their mistake. Not spitefully, or to show off my own self-control, but in an honest, upright way. That's what we should be like inside, and never let the gods catch us feeling anger or resentment. <br/>
As long as you do what's proper to your nature, and accept what the world's nature has in store—as long as you work for others' good, by any and all means—what is there that can harm you?
[11.13]

> It's all in how you perceive it. You're in control. You can dispense with misperception at will, like rounding the point. Serenity, total calm, safe anchorage.
[12.22]

This doesn't mean I'm numb to the world. Quite the opposite. I think feeling deeply allows me to connect with others on a profound level. I don't feel ashamed showing my 'sensitive' side, because I believe in complete honesty and transparency. I find it easy to live with myself and empathise with my friends' joys and sorrows, celebrate their victories, and offer comfort in their struggles by being open and welcoming. 

> To enter others' minds and let them enter yours.
[8.61]

By embracing my own emotions, I don't get swept away by them. I can be a rock for others, a lighthouse in the storm, because I've weathered my own internal tempests. I think it works wonderfully in personal AND professional relationships. As long as you have a good understanding of your thoughts (ie. you're self-aware), and can feel and process your emotions gently in the moment, I'd say you have a better chance of getting along well with others. Being kind to yourself is the first step, which is hard, because we are often our own worst critics.

> To be like the rock that the waves keep crashing over. It stands unmoved and the raging of the sea falls still around it.
[4.49]

> If it's in your control, why do you do it? If it's in someone else's, then who are you blaming? Atoms? The Gods? Stupid either way. <br/>
Blame no one. Set people straight, if you can. If not, just repair the damage. And suppose you can't do that either. Then where does blaming people get you?<br/>
No pointless actions.
[8.17]

>That no one can say truthfully that you are not a straightforward or honest person. That anyone who thinks that believes a falsehood. The responsibility is all yours; no one can stop you from being honest or straightforward. Simply resolve not to go on living if you aren't. It would be contrary to the nature of the world.

> As you move forward in the world, people will stand in your way. They can't keep you from doing what's healthy; don't let them stop you from putting up with them either. Take care on both counts. Not just sound judgments, solid actions—tolerance as well, for those who try to obstruct us or give us trouble in other ways.<br/>
Because anger, too, is weakness, as much as breaking down and giving up the struggle. Both are deserters: the man who breaks and runs, and the one who lets himself be alienated from his fellow humans.
[11.9]

The Stoics of the ancient world would often say that one of the only things you can control in your life is your own mind. If one is mindful in most (if not all) aspects of their lives, then nobody can hurt you. No one can tell you what to feel, because you choose how you respond to whatever life throws your way. You end up being in control and nothing can stop you from making the most out of any situation. 

> Choose not to be harmed—and you won't feel harmed.
Don't feel harmed—and you haven't been.
[4.7]

Note: Living by the above passage is excruciatingly difficult when there are dark, terrible things that physically happen to you, as it did me in my younger years, which I won't get into. 

(Also of note, I am still young.)

> It can ruin your life only if it ruins your character. Otherwise it cannot harm you—inside or out.
[4.7]

> So other people hurt me? That's their problem. Their character and actions are not mine. What is done to me is ordained by nature, what I do by my own.
[5.25]

> Let it happen, if it wants, to whatever it can happen to. And what's affected can complain about it if it wants. It doesn't hurt me unless I interpret its happening as harmful to me. I can choose not to.
[7.14]

> To feel affection for people even when they make mistakes is uniquely human. You can do it, if you simply recognize: that they're human too, and they act out of ignorance, against their will, and that you'll both be dead before long. And, above all, that they haven't really hurt you. They haven't diminished your ability to choose.
[7.22]

Stoicism reminds us that while we cannot always control what happens to us, we can control how we respond. While being a Stoic and also feeling emotions might seem like an apparent contradiction, I believe it allows one to navigate life fully with both heart and wisdom.