---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: A letter to my love
date: 2023-12-17
---
I am writing this with a heavy heart. It really hits me to know that time is against me. In roughly a month (or two), I am going to be leaving this place and moving to Toronto, Canada. In these moments of contemplation, your image constantly stands out against the many thoughts that occupy my mind. I can't/won't ever stop thinking about and loving you every single day.

Every moment spent with you feels like a gift. Thinking of leaving makes me very emotional to the point of tearing up (as I write these words, tears well up in my eyes). It is the quiet realisation that soon, your voice, smile, and laughter may exist only in a special place of my memory, forever cherished.

The impending departure is akin to a symphony of conflicting emotions. New beginnings intertwined with the pain of goodbyes. Amidst this emotional tempest, your presence remains a steady anchor. Your presence has become an essential part of my daily rhythm.

As I think of a future where our paths diverge, I am struggling to accept the reality that our interactions may no longer be as frequent. The mere thought of navigating the waters of life without the comfort of our shared moments is going to be a significant challenge to me, as I eagerly look forward to our shared moments each day.

You have been a beacon of light, a source of comfort during both mundane and monumental moments. Saying goodbye feels like I'm parting with a cherished piece of my existence.

What follows are some (fragments of) words from my notes app.

> When I look at you I see art and poetry, sky and sea, strength and sensitivity. You are the sun in my life.

> In de tuin van mijn liefde, ze is een roos dat bloeit als geen ander. Mijn stille hart fluistert "als ze het maar wist".

> i love you. i love you. i love you. i love you to death. i love everything about you. you are amazing and i wish/hope i can forever be with you

> The world may be against me but a smile from you makes it all seem alright.

> your radiance, your brilliance—my sun, my moon

> I will miss you so much; your smile, laugh, voice, warmth, personality, confidence, wit, charm, strength and courage. My sun. My love. Your beauty and grace. My moon. My heart can’t take it — I love you forever. I weep. I will wait for you.

> I can’t and won’t ever stop thinking about & loving you every day - I love you sm my love. Praying to the universe to make my wishes come true.

> I love it when you say my name.  
I love it when you say something mundane.  
I love it when you smile.  
I love it when you laugh.    <br/><br/>
I love it when you message me.  
I love it when you speak (I love hearing your voice).  
I love it when you are silent.  
I love it when you carry the light in you.  <br/><br/>
I love it when you know exactly what to say.  
I love it when you pause in conversation to get your thoughts together.  
I love it when you are assertive and confident.  
I love it when you carry the world in your hands.  <br/><br/>
I love it when you include me in conversations.  
I love it when you patiently listen to what I have to say.  
I love it when you greet me.  
I love it when you are conscious of me.  <br/><br/>
I love it when you pull me back in for a little longer when we're just about to say goodbye.  
I love it when you remember minor details about me.  
I love it when you tell me to go to bed.  
I love it when you feel happy.  <br/><br/>
I love it when you share things with me.  
I love it when you let your soul shine in what you do.  
I love it when you are chaotic.  
I love it when you are loving life. 

I never really dabbled in poetry, until I fell in love with you. I realised lately I have a natural inclination for the poetic side of things in life. I am so so so so (...times a million) thankful to have met you. You are amazing, sweet, funny, charming, delightful and my gosh it hurts so much typing this, and words cannot express how special you are to me.

This letter is not a farewell; it's proof that everything about life is sacred and good, which you have brought into focus. I yearn to spend the rest of my days with you (I wish I was closer to you every day). I am unsure of how, or if, I will ever get a chance to express my love. Amidst the chaos, I feel profoundly alone. I don't even know if you will ever read this.

I genuinely hope for a day I will see you in person, and not just in my dreams. I hope for the possibility (unless you are already taken 🥲) since, at the very least, we'll be in the same timezone.

With a love that is abundant and filled with fondness and warmth. I await you with open arms.

Across the distance, my heart will always whisper your name, carrying dreams of a future where it echoes not just in my soul, but in yours too. May fate bring us together — hand in glove, hearts entwined.

I love you so much. Forever.