---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: Always be your own biggest proponent
date: 2024-02-20
---
_Staring at my computer screen, I don't know what to write about per usual._

I tend to have a low opinion of myself, in fact I don't think much of myself at all. What you see is what you get. Now one may label me 'humble', but it's a simple fact that I want to be low-key. That said, I'm taller than average (194cm), and it is an easy conversation starter for folks who want to chat me up. Sometimes people open with that and I just smile and say "yeah". (I wish I was charming or knew how to flirt HAHA.) I used to hate it in my teenage and adolescent years, but now it's funny and I almost always expect it. It's endearing.

My teenage/adolescent self was very different, yet same in many ways.

I was insecure (who isn't in their formative years?!). Whenever someone said or did a kind gesture to me, I felt like I didn't deserve it. I sometimes still feel that way.

It stopped much later, until I asked myself: "Why? Why do I feel like I have no value? Why do I feel like no one can ever do anything nice for me and that I don't deserve it?"

I used to say "sorry" a lot, until a friend noticed that and stopped me. 

I asked myself: "Why do I feel like I'm a burden? Why do I feel like I'm being such a bother whenever I want to talk to people? Like I'm imposing upon them?"

"Why don't I ever feel valid?"

I built up walls around me because of an unpleasant childhood and teenage years (in terms of friendships). I decided to hide a little to avoid being hurt or to avoid hurting others. I fell into friendships and relationships with manipulative people because I didn't know better. I have always been a 'misfit'. I decided to always keep a low profile — to not be noticed — because I was scared of making friends and becoming hurt over and over. It sometimes takes me a long time to open up to some people, while with others (in most cases) I noticed that it instantly clicks. Funny how it happens.

(I don't let myself be defined by my past, nor do I believe anyone should. People can always choose to be who they are.)

Knowing what I know now, and being as I am today, I sometimes wish I could go back in time and be a guide to my younger self. I wish I could be his friend. I wish I could hug him and tell him everything will be OK. I wish I could also tell him to not be scared of people, and to open up more. I would tell him NOT to read books on philosophy and would encourage him to act his age. I think my younger self would be surprised to see how open and how not jaded and cynical towards life I currently am.

It took me a long time to own who I am; to become 'myself'. I think it's a never-ending process of self-discovery and I'm still discovering a lot of things about myself. I'm setting up boundaries and am not scared of letting people know if they're crossing it. It's a process of learning and unlearning. You just have to do what is best for you. That reminds me of something a friend said to me two days ago:

> "Always be your own biggest proponent."

(Thank you, Mathias. I love you.)

The right people in your life will understand and respect your boundaries. Sometimes they'll just know, and in some cases you'll have to plainly tell them. I appreciate the people who patiently showed me that I can be myself and have constantly reassured me that it's OK to be different. It's OK to embrace my honest, messy, and imperfect self.