---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: Highlights from Meditations [draft]
date: 2024-01-23
---
I wanted to have a handy reference to my highlighted passages and quotes from the book 'Meditations' by Marcus Aurelius.

### On life/death
> Each of us lives only now, this brief instant. The rest has been lived already, or is impossible to see.  

> Dwell on the beauty of life. Watch the stars, and see yourself running with them.

> Death: something like birth, a natural mystery, elements that split and recombine. Not an embarrassing thing. Not an offense to reason, or our nature.

> If it's time for you to go, leave willingly—as you would to accomplish anything that can be done with grace and honor.

### On living
> Waste no more time arguing about what a good man should be. Be one.

> If it is not right do not do it; if it is not true do not say it.

> When you arise in the morning, think of what a precious privilege it is to be alive—to breathe, to think, to enjoy, to love.

> **How to act**  <br/>
>> Never under compulsion, out of selfishness, without forethought, with misgivings.  <br/>
>> Don’t gussy up your thoughts.  <br/>
>> No surplus words or unnecessary actions.  <br/>
>> Let the spirit in you represent a man, an adult, a citizen, a Roman, a ruler. Taking up his post like a soldier and awaiting his recall from life.  <br/>
> **Cheerfulness.** Without requiring other people’s help. Or serenity supplied by others.  <br/>
>> To stand up straight—not straightened.

> Concentrate every minute like a Roman–like a man–on doing what’s in front of you with precise and genuine seriousness, tenderly, willingly, with justice. And on freeing yourself from all other distractions. Yes, you can–if you do everything as if it were the last thing you were doing in your life, and stop being aimless, stop letting your emotions override what your mind tells you, stop being hypocritical, self-centered, irritable. You see how few things you have to do to live a satisfying and reverent life? If you can manage this, that’s all even the gods can ask of you.

> Life is short. That's all there is to say. Get what you can from the present—thoughtfully, justly. Unrestrained moderation.

> Here is a rule to remember in future, when anything tempts you to feel bitter: not "This is misfortune," but "To bear this worthily is good fortune."

> Not to live as if you had endless years ahead of you. Death overshadows you. While you're alive and able—be good.

> [...] To get back up when you fail, to celebrate behaving like a human—however imperfectly—and fully embrace the pursuit you've embarked on.

> The mind is the ruler of the soul. It should remain unstirred by agitations of the flesh—gentle and violent ones alike. Not mingling with them, but fencing itself off and keeping those feelings in their place. When they make their way into your thoughts, through the sympathetic link between mind and body, don’t try to resist the sensation. The sensation is natural. But don’t let the mind start in with judgments, calling it "good" or "bad".

> Treat human beings as they deserve, be tolerant with others and strict with yourself.

> So other people hurt me? That's their problem. Their character and actions are not mine. What is done to me is ordained by nature, what I do by my own.

> The impediment to action advances action. What stands in the way becomes the way.

> Practice the virtues you can show: honesty, gravity, endurance, patience, austerity, resignation, abstinence, sincerity, moderation, seriousness, high-mindedness. Don't you see how much you have to offer—beyond excuses like "can't?" And yet you still settle for less.

> When you wake up in the morning, tell yourself: the people I deal with today will be meddling, ungrateful, arrogant, dishonest, jealous and surly. They are like this because they can't tell good from evil. But I have seen the beauty of good, and the ugliness of evil, and have recognized that the wrongdoer has a nature related to my own - not of the same blood and birth, but the same mind, and possessing a share of the divine. And so none of them can hurt me. No one can implicate me in ugliness. Nor can I feel angry at my relative, or hate him. We were born to work together like feet, hands and eyes, like the two rows of teeth, upper and lower. To obstruct each other is unnatural. To feel anger at someone, to turn your back on him: these are unnatural.

> Whenever you want to cheer yourself up, consider the good qualities of your companions, for example, the energy of one, the modesty of another, the generosity of yet another, and some other quality of another; for nothing cheers the heart as much as the images of excellence reflected in the character of our companions, all brought before us as fully as possible. Therefore, keep these images ready at hand.

### On fate (or, amor fati)
> There are two reasons to embrace what happens. One is that it's happening to you. It was prescribed for you, and it pertains to you. The thread was spun long ago, by the oldest cause of all.

> Remember two things: i. that everything has always been the same, and keeps recurring, and it makes no difference whether you see the same things recur in a hundred years or two hundred, or in an infinite period; ii. that the longest-lived and those who will die soonest lose the same thing. The present is all that they can give up, since that is all you have, and what you do not have you cannot lose.

> Accept the things to which fate binds you, and love the people with whom fate brings you together, but do so with all your heart.

> Matter. How tiny your share of it. Time. How brief and fleeting your allotment of it. Fate. How small a role you play in it.

### On overcoming procrastination/laziness

> At dawn, when you have trouble getting out of bed, tell yourself: ‘I have to go to work—as a human being. What do I have to complain of, if I’m going to do what I was born for—the things I was brought into the world to do? Or is this what I was created for? To huddle under the blankets and stay warm?'  <br/>
—But it’s nicer here…  <br/>
So you were born to feel ‘nice’? Instead of doing things and experiencing them? Don’t you see the plants, the birds, the ants and spiders and bees going about their individual tasks, putting the world in order, as best they can? And you’re not willing to do your job as a human being? Why aren’t you running to do what your nature demands?  <br/>
—But we have to sleep sometime…  <br/>
Agreed. But nature set a limit on that—as it did on eating and drinking. And you’re over the limit. You’ve had more than enough of that. But not of working. There you’re still below your quota. You don’t love yourself enough. Or you’d love your nature too, and what it demands of you. People who love what they do wear themselves down doing it, they even forget to wash or eat. Do you have less respect for your own nature than the engraver does for engraving, the dancer for dance, the miser for money or the social climber for status? When they’re really possessed by what they do, they’d rather stop eating and sleeping than give up practicing their arts.

> Remember how long you’ve been putting this off, how many extensions the gods gave you, and you didn’t use them. At some point you have to recognize what the world it is that you belong to; what power rules it and from what source you spring; that there is a limit to the time assigned you, and if you don’t use it to free yourself it will be gone and will never return.


