---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: Thoughts on my mind
date: 2024-01-26
---
Practicing mindfulness/CBT by listing down some anxiety inducing thoughts on my mind since this morning.... and simultaneously trying to work through my emotions. It is hard. I am in a different zone. My chest feels heavy. 

Deleting this later.

<br/>

> I don't know what comes next and that notion is causing me great anxiety.

Acknowledge the present moment. Live the questions now and try to not seek the answers. The door will open eventually. The future will be good. Believe in that, believe in all things good, believe in yourself. You made it this far. Move in the direction of your prayers. Fear is uncomfortable but not dangerous. You have been in your comfort zone for too long.

<br/>

> God why is everything hitting me so hard right now? 

It is definitely overwhelming, but feel all your emotions. The last couple of days have been rough, you have gone through a lot and have had a lot of things on your mind. It is OK. It is a sign that you care about a lot of things. Work through them like you are doing now. Untangle it all. Bit by bit.

<br/>

> Will I have anyone in my corner? 

It is a natural desire to wish that you had someone, but you should focus on your spirit, your mind, and know that you are enough. You have always been self-reliant, and you should be good at figuring things out on your own. Even in solitude, you are never alone — you carry the strength of your character and are fortunate to have the wisdom to know and do things better. Practice kindness and be kind to yourself. 

<br/>

> I hope I don't lose the people I love...

You will always carry them within you. They will always cheer for you even if it doesn't seem like it. (In fact, don't even expect it.) Remember their spirit. Cherish the memories and their love for you. Especially the close ones. Be grateful that you met and know them. Realise that the magic in others is not in the absence of your own. Remember your own heart.

<br/>

> I hope I don't lose my crush...

Be thankful that you met, know, and love her. Be happy for her, always welcome and support her. Remember and cherish her spirit and personality — her smile, laughter, and warmth ❤️ but don't force it and don't get too carried away. Live in the present and be ready to accept whatever happens and work through it when the time comes. It is one-sided/unrequited after all... (It is very hard because she may never know...) Respect her boundaries and respect her choices. Respect her fully.

<br/>

> I hope I don't get bitter/sarcastic

You won't. Being unironic and 'authentic' is one of the bravest things one can do in this age of great irony and flippancy. Just be yourself. Don't even try being sardonic because it is not natural to you.

<br/>

> I want to cry but am unable to...

There are lots of different feelings currently within you. Swim in the waters of your heart and feel all of it. Eventually tears may come naturally, but don't force it.

<br/>

> I don't know what to do next in all this free time I have

In the words of Tom and Donna from Parks and Rec: "TREAT YO' SELF"

Be free. Be deliberate.

Try to do nothing — you always want to work. Just relax, sit around and aim to do nothing for at least an hour every day. Creative people need time to sit around and do nothing. Otherwise you will burn yourself out.

You also haven't taken any vacation time last year... maybe travel?

Go into the nature — Watch the birds and the trees.

Continue reading. Catch up on movies. Or TV. 

When you feel ready: Work on yourself both physically and mentally. Work on your folio. Learn something new. Exercise creativity. Watch comedy. Listen to new music. Try getting back into 3D art and illustrations - it is therapeutic and will keep you occupied.